---
title: 2. Clean, transform, and load data in Power BI
created: 2025-01-03T11:40
updated: 2025-01-06T09:44
---

# Shape the initial data
### Promote headers
## Rename columns
## Remove top rows (blanks)
## Remove columns
**Remove Columns** > **Remove Other Columns**.

## Unpivot columns (flatten)
select the **Transform** tab in Power Query, and then select **Unpivot**.
## Pivot columns (unflatten)
On the **Transform** tab, select **Transform > Pivot Columns**.
# Simplify the data structure
## Rename a query 
(vproduct to product)
## Replace values
typos
out of bound value
null values

remove duplicate

## Best practices for naming tables, columns, and values
- A best practice is to give your tables, columns, and measures descriptive business terms and replace underscores (" _ ") with spaces. 
- Be consistent with abbreviations, prefixes, and words like "number" and "ID." 
- Excessively short abbreviations can cause confusion if they are not commonly used within the organization.
- Also, by removing prefixes or suffixes that you might use in table names and instead naming them in a simple format, you will help avoid confusion.
- When replacing values, try to imagine how those values will appear on the report. 
	- Values that are too long might be difficult to read and fit on a visual. 
	- Values that are too short might be difficult to interpret. 
	- Avoiding acronyms in values is also a good idea, provided that the text will fit on the visual.
# Evaluate and change column data types
## Implications of incorrect data types
measures and calculation in dax can depend on data types to work.

inability to create a date hierarchy,

# Combine multiple tables into a single table
## Append queries
home tab --> append queries --> **Append Queries as New**

## Merge queries
 **Home** on ribbon --> **Merge Queries** drop-down menu --> select **Merge Queries as New**.
# Profile data in Power BI
## Examine data structures
On the **Model** tab, you can 
	- edit specific column and table properties by selecting a table or columns,  
	- transform the data by using the **Transform Data** button, which takes you to Power Query Editor. 
	- manage, create, edit, and delete relationships between different tables by using **Manage Relationships**, which is located on the ribbon.
## Find data anomalies and data statistics
**Column Distribution** feature.
Select **View** on the ribbon, -->  under **Data Preview** --> **Column Distribution**, **Column Quality**, and **Column Profile** options.

By default, Power Query examines the first 1000 rows of your data set. To change this, select the profiling status in the status bar and select **Column profiling based on entire data set**. ]


**Column Distribution**, 
	- distribution of the data within the column and the counts of distinct and unique values
	- Distinct values are all the different values in a column, including duplicates and null values, 
	- unique values do not include duplicates or nulls.
	- above the dataframe 
**Column Quality**, 
	- percentages of data that is valid, in error, and empty.
	- above the dataframe

**Column Profile**
	**Value distribution** graph
	**Column Statistics**
	below the dataframe 
	