---
title: 3. create visual calc in pbi
created: 2025-01-13
updated: 2025-01-13

---

# Understand visual calculations
- preview feature as of sept 2024
  - preview setting still avail at jan 2025
- home > calculation > new calculation
- require user write dax
- stored within the visual, not in measure/model

e.g.
- A comparison of sales over years.
- A running sum of cost by category.
- A moving average of profit over time.

Visual calculations combine
- straightforward context of calculated columns
- flexibility of on-demand calculations from measures. 
  
They work on aggregated data instead of detailed data

visual calculation usually performs better than measure.

# Create visual calculations
Although possible, there's no need to add an aggregation function like SUM as you would in a measure. 
- better not to add such aggregates when they're not necessary. 
- allows easier distinction between measures and visual calculation expressions.
- use template
- to the right of the dax formula textbox. click **fx**

## avail dax funcs
- context limited within visual matrix
  - hence no model relationship funcs like userelationship, related, relatetable

# Use parameters in visual calculations

## Use the Axis parameter
many func have optional axis param controling how it traverse the visual matrix
- row
- columns 
- rows column
- columns row
## Use the Reset parameter


- NONE is the default value and doesn't reset the calculation.
- HIGHESTPARENT resets the calculation when the value of the highest parent on the axis changes.
- LOWESTPARENT resets the calculations when the value of the lowest parent on the axis changes.
- A numerical value which refers to the fields on the axis, with the highest field being one.


e.g.


    RUNNINGSUM([Sales Amount], HIGHESTPARENT) starts from 0 for every year.

    RUNNINGSUM([Sales Amount], LOWESTPARENT) starts from 0 for every Quarter.
