---
title: 4. config report filter
created: 2025-01-13
updated: 2025-01-13

---

5 level for filter
- semantic model/ dataset (rls, ols)
  - check for sit when no data is returned
- report struct
  - report
  - page 
  - visual
  - configured using filter pane 
- measure
  - modify filter context using calculate or calculatetable, time intelligence

# Apply filters to the report structure
- filter on all page (report level)
- filter on this page (page level)
- filter on this visual (visual level)
  - can be filtered using a measure to eliminate group
  
- various type for different datatypes
- can lock and hide from consumer

# Apply filters with slicers

- continuous value have additional layouts

Possible layouts for the field data type are:

- Text field - 
  - List (default), 
  - dropdown
- Numeric field - 
  - List, dropdown, 
  - between (default), 
  - less than or equal to, 
  - greater than or equal to
- Date field - 
  - List, 
  - dropdown, 
  - between (default), 
  - before, after, 
  - relative date, 
  - relative time

# Design reports with advanced filtering techniques

other filtering techniques, such as:

- Visual interactions
  - cross filtering
    - select col on 1 chart > cross filter/highlight the group on the other
- Drillthrough
    element redirect to another page with element filter
- Report tooltip
  - overlay on hover instead of another page (drillthrough) 
- Bookmarks
  - saved preset of filter, visuals show v hide
- Report options
  - disable persistent filter?
  - hide visual header for all visual/ 1 visual (hide active filter from consumer)
  - hide filter icon for specific visual
  - restrict consumer from changing filter type
  - remove search box in filter pane
- Query reduction options
  - add apply button to slicers/filter pane such that only query again on apply
  - add apply button to all basic filter
  - configure these in report setting.
  

# Consumption-time filtering
- Using slicers.
  - most intuitive
- Using filters.
  - can be configed to be hidden
  - can
    - use eraser icon to clear filter.
    - Apply a new filter selection.
    - Change the filter type, such as from basic to advanced (can be disable in report).
    - Use the search box to search for values to filter by (can be disable in report).
  - cant
    - Add new filters.
    - Remove filters.
    - Change the filter type to Top N, or relative date or time (for date/time fields).
    - Enforce or disable single selection.

- Applying interactive filtering actions.
  - slice to propagate
  - cross filter
  - include exclude
    - can do this to groups
  - drill
  - apply bookmark
- Determining applied filters.
    the funnel icon on visual onclick shows active filter

- Working with persistent filters.
    a feature than saves consumer's slicer setting (needs to be enabled)

# Select report filter techniques
filter v slicer:
- 2 ways to same outcome
- filter pane perform better 
  - no render
  - no space
- slicer have format flexibility and more intuitive

|       | filter pane                                                                                                  | slicers                                                                                                    |
| :---- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ad    | - consistent location. <br/> - advance filter type and complex expression. <br/> - sort func and search box. <br/> - faster. <br/> - lock or hide filter. <br/> - apply to batch submit update. <br/> - filter using measure. <br/> | - freedom of placement. <br/> - highly configurable. <br/> - hierarchical slicers. <br/> - display selection on report page. <br/> - can display image. <br/> - can filter specific visual and not other (visual interaction). <br/> - slicer them self can be filtered. <br/> - can sort item. <br/> - can sync across page 
| disad | - less flexible. <br/> - hide certain filter to avoid confusing consumer. <br/> - easy to lose track on applied visual filter. | - performance. <br/> - space on page. <br/> - less complex than filter pane (no top n slicer)                                |

## tips:
- use 1 or the other , dont use both
- usually consumer should not see visual level filters (hence lock/hide them)
- create bookmark to reset to default
- consider having a slicer page if too many settings.
- educate cross filter instead of slicer.
> Take care not to use horizontal orientation when many distinct values are present. Often, report consumers don't notice the scroll arrows that allow navigation to the following items. Consequently, they might think that the value they're looking for doesn't exist.

- perhaps include a video to show usage of report

