---
title: 5. Enhance Power BI report designs for the user experience
created: 2025-01-13
updated: 2025-01-13

---


# Design reports to show details
3 levels of unconscious process
- High-level metrics
- Supporting visuals
- Details, when required
    - Use drillable visuals
    - Add tooltips
    - Add drillthrough
      - less clutter than page/visual tooltips
    - Embed paginated reports
        - pbi have 150,000 row limit on pbi report
        - paginated report can export up to 1 million rows to excel

# Design reports to highlight values

quickly communicate important and relevant facts using techniques like.
- Conditional formatting
    - Background color (color blindness)
    - Font color (color blindness)
    - Data bars
    - Icons (recommended)

- Overlaid analytics
  - trendline and forecasting
- Anomaly detection
  - time series point highlight
- Specialized visuals
  - key influencer
  - decomposition tree

# Design reports that behave like apps
- back
- bookmark
- drillthrough
- page nav
  - can be bot hard coded page name or measure that returns page name
- q&a
  - Unlike the Q&A visual, a button that is assigned the Q&A action doesn't occupy significant space on the report page.
- web url 
        action url for information workers, 
        i.e. send attachment to client with template message
# Work with bookmarks
Bookmarks capture different state 
- data,
  - e.g. slicers. dro;; depth 
- display, 
  - visibility of visuals
- current page
  - can be used for page tooltip with preconfigured drillthrough selection.

By default, a new bookmark captures all state types, but you can decide to disable any of them.
## Bookmark scope
    all visual or selected visual

## use cases 
- Reset slicers
  - capture data state but not anything else.
- swap visuals
- drill down multiple visuals to check the required depth (year quarter month)
- pop up overlay
  - e.g. introduction and how to use the report

# Design reports for navigation
- ux component need to be considered early in design process.
- retrofitting leads to unintuitive and disjoint experience and cost.
- consistency and proximity of ui location is crucial.
- on hover formatting can be used to show
  - highlight which option is active. 
  - descriptive tooltip

# Work with visual headers
- drill up down, show data table. 
- always leave sufficient space for the head to appear in upper right (ensures consistency)
- can to hidden using report setting
- turn off header for those that dont require them will lessen distractions.
- format visual > general > header icons
- can also be configured in power bi service
  - setting for report > visual options > hide the visual header in reading view

# Design reports with built-in assistance
aim for no training required experience. consider using
- information page
- visual header tooltip icon
  - this option enable a help icon in the header that allow you describe the visual (i.e. metric definition)
- button with overlay

# Tune report performance
- use Performance analyzer
- use dax studio to debug dax
- visual with more than 100 fields will be slow to load, also confusing.

# Optimize reports for mobile use.
## Design a mobile report layout
Available in the view tab > mobile layout

## Configure visuals and slicers for use in mobile reports
- orientation and header may may need to change
- responsive slicers must be horizontal.