---
title: 6. Perform analytics in power bi
created: 2025-01-13
updated: 2025-01-13

---

# Introduction to analytics
pbi make this more accessible to DA than traditionally DE.
> [!WARNING]
> sections mentioned here but not in ms learn unit
> - Use advanced analytics custom visuals.
> - Review Quick insights.
> - Apply AI Insights.

# Explore statistical summary
- dax statistical functions like
  - sum
  - average 
  - etc
  - better than implicit measure via the ui for performance
- histogram + bell curve
  - binning
    - group type
      - number of bins    
- topn analysis
  - use qa visual to find topn
  - topn filter type
  - topn dax function 

# Identify outliers with Power BI visuals
- use visual (scatter)
- use dax
  - example here replicate normal result. not a statistical way to highlight outlier.

# Group and bin data for analysis
- group is for catrgories of data.
- binning is for grouping continuous fields.
- to create a group on the visual, ctrl+click to select data point > right click > select group data
- Edit a group
  - Right-click the group field in either the Legend bucket or the Fields pane, and then select Edit Groups.
- create bin groups
  - Start in the Fields pane by right-clicking the Order Qty field that you want to create the bins for.
  - then select New Group. 
  - On the Groups window that displays, set the Bin size to the size that you want, adjust other settings as required, and then select OK.

# Apply clustering techniques
in scatter visual > more options (...
) > automatically find clusters > edit fields, num of cluster.

- applied clustering to the scatter allows only use two measures. 
- for clustering by using more than two measures, use a table visual instead, 
  - add all the fields you want to use, and then run the clustering algorithm by using the same process.

# Conduct time series analysis
- appsource has animation custom visual called play axis (dynamic slicer).
  - act like dynamic slicer and display time trend without user interaction.
  - Play Axis visual that is available for scatter chart visualizations within Power BI Desktop has similar functionality
- formatting of play axis
  - animation setting
    - auto start animation
    - looping
    - speed
  - colors
    - overall color and of each button
  - caption for visual.

# Use the Analyze feature
> [!NOTE]
> This feature does not work if you have non-numeric filters applied to your visual and/or if you have measure filters applied.

steps:
- right-click a data point on the visual 
- hover over the Analyze option to display two further options: 
  - Explain the increase
  -  Find where the distribution is different. 
- The options that are available depend on the data point that you selected.

For more information about the Analyze feature, see [Apply insights in Power BI Desktop to discover where distributions vary (preview)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/create-reports/desktop-insights-find-where-different/).

# Create what-if parameters
use slicer to control the parameter value and can be used to project growth and compare to previous performance.

# Use specialized visuals

The three main AI visuals are:
- Key influencers
  - find most correlated variable
  - Key influencers uses clustering and ML to determine relationships while decomposition tree already has the relationships determined through your schema
- Decomposition tree
  - visualize data in multi dimension in any order
  - valuable tool for ad hoc exploration and conducting root cause analysis. 
- Q&A

| decomposition tree                                                | key influencer                                                            |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| useful for root base analysis                                     | Explore the impact of a specific value on the change of a target variable |
| Composed of nodes                                                 | Dependent on enough observations to derive patterns                       |
| Allows the exploration of a target variable using different paths | Useful for directly comparing influence across variables                  |