---
title: 1. Create and manage workspaces in Power BI
created: 2025-01-14
updated: 2025-01-14

---

Workspaces offer the following benefits:

- Focused collaboration efforts. You can use workspaces to house reports and dashboards for use by multiple teams.
- Ability to share and present reports and dashboards in a single environment.
- Assurance that the highest level of security is maintained by controlling who can access semantic models, reports, and dashboards.

# Distribute a report or dashboard
## Create a workspace
1. Go to Power BI service.
2. Select the `Workspaces` menu from left navigation blade.
3. Select the `Create a workspace` button at the bottom of the resulting panel.
4. In the Create a workspace window, enter information in the Workspace name and Description fields and then upload a Workspace image.
5. In the Advanced drop-down menu, you can create a Contact list of users to receive notifications on issues with workspace.
6. select Save.
## Assign workspace roles

Admin
- Update and delete the workspace
- Add or remove people, including other admins

Member
- Add members or others with lower permissions
- Publish, unpublish, and change permissions for an app

Contributor
- Create, edit, and delete content, such as reports, in the workspace
- Publish reports to the workspace

Viewer
- View and interact with an item
- Read data that's stored in workspace dataflows

steps to config:
workspace > upper left corner  > access
## Create and configure an app
Content can be in the form of 
- reports, 
- dashboards, 
- semantic models, 
- dataflows,
- etc.
 
Publish the app requires a Power BI Pro license.

Consuming and viewing an app also requires a Pro license, or the workspace must be hosted in a Premium capacity.

creation of app have 3 tabs
- setup
- content
- audience
  - grant to org or specific user or group
  - In the Advanced section, you can choose to grant additional permissions, individually or neither:
    - Allow people to share the semantic models in the app audience
    - Allow people to build content with the semantic models in the app audience

# Monitor usage and performance
Usage metric reports are available for Power BI Pro users and can only be accessed by users with the role types of Admin, Member, or Contributor.

workspace > report/dashboard > (...) > view uesage metrics report drop down

check user count, frequent hours, report performance, filter by date.
> https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/collaborate-share/service-modern-usage-metrics

# Recommend a development life cycle strategy
- Deployment pipeline (Premium)
  - feature requires you to be a Capacity admin.
  - increased productivity
  - faster delivery of content
  - lower human intervention required
- Development environments/stage
  - dev, test, prod
- Configuration of deployment pipelines
  - pbi service > deployment pipelines > create a pipeline > assign workspace to deployment stage 
  - to switch data source between environments there are 2 options
    - create parameters in Power Query Parameters (which will be discussed in a later module)
    - add a new rule
- object level differences are shown in between stages
- Reports are dependent on their semantic models. If a semantic model has changed, but you don't deploy it with an associated report, the report will not behave correctly. 

# Troubleshoot data by viewing its lineage
can see impact of object (model, report, etc) used in other entities (workspaces, reports, dashboards, views)
can refresh model here

# Configure data protection
- Microsoft sensitivity labels to label dashboards, reports, semantic models, and dataflows by using the same taxonomy that is used to classify and protect files in Microsoft 365.
- Add more protection measures such as encryption and watermarks when you are exporting the data.
- Use Microsoft Cloud App Security to monitor and investigate activities in Power BI.
- For more information, see [Apply Data Sensitivity Labels in Power BI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/collaborate-share/service-security-apply-data-sensitivity-labels).