---
title: 2. manage semantic models in pbi
created: 2025-01-14
updated: 2025-01-14

---

# Use a Power BI gateway to connect to on-premises data sources.
A gateway facilitates quick, behind-the-scenes communication that flows from a user in the cloud to your on-premises data source and then back again to the cloud.
2 modes avail:
- org mode: connects multiple on-premises data sources to multiple users
  - suitable for complex scenario
- personal mode (only works for pbi desktop on local computer, install gateway locally)
# Configure a scheduled refresh for a semantic model.
steps 
- semantic model + data flow page > schedule refresh > refresh frequency
  - 8/day standard capacity 
  - 48 on premium capacity 
- can also do on demand refresh (manual) 
- check for refresh history and failure here.
# Configure incremental refresh settings.
using this without query folding will lead to bad experience due to pulling data multiple times.

benefit 
- quicker refresh
- more reliable (reduce connection open time)
- reduce resource consumption

steps:
- define filter param
  - defined inside power query (manage param)
  - RangeStart RangeEnd
- use param to apply a filter
  - choose column and apply custom filter (base on param)
- define inc refresh policy
  - right click on field/data pane
  - incremental refresh 
    - default to 
      - historical 5 years, 
      - 10 days inc, 
      - autoremove older than 5 years
- push change to pbi service


# Manage and promote semantic models.
promote:
  - ready for broad usage
certification:
  - highly selective, only truly reliable and authoritative semantic model.

need write permission on workspace to promote/certified

pbi setting > dataset > endorsement > promote/certified > apply

only authorized users can certify content.


# Troubleshoot service connectivity.
check data source credentials up to date

cloud service dont need gateway

# Boost performance with query caching (Premium).

Query Caching is a local caching feature that maintains results on a user and report basis.

benefits

- Improvement of the performance of reports, dashboards, and dashboard tiles.
- It respects bookmarks and default filters.
- Cached query results are specific to the user.
- All security labels are followed.
- It reduces the load on your dedicated capacity.

Switching from On to Off clears all previously saved query results. 

many query cache will reduce refresh performance

# knowledge
Promotion does not need specific permissions while Certification requires permission from the semantic model owner to access to the semantic model.


Promotion is for broad usage while Certification needs permission granted on the Admin Tenant settings.
