---
title: 3. create dashboards in power bi
created: 2025-01-15
updated: 2025-01-15

---

dashboard capture the most important highlight of story
- you want to have the most important information for the consumer to see immediately.
- For additional insights, consumers can follow through to the corresponding report.

| Dashboards             | Reports                                         |
| :--------------------- | :---------------------------------------------- |
| Create only in service | Create in Power BI Desktop (limited in service) |
| Single page            | Multiple pages                                  |
| Static tiles           | Interactive visuals                             |
| Read-only tiles        | Filters pane                                    |


# Pin a tile from a different report

# Configure data alerts
- These alerts are features that are only available on Power BI service 
- They're available on such report elements such as KPI visuals, gauges, and cards.

# Explore data by asking questions
- Q&A feature
  - 3 element
  - question box
  - prepopulated suggestion tiles
  - pin visual
# Review Quick insights
select specific model > (...) > quick insight

auto dashbvisual oard for 1 semantic model as starting point

32 separate insight card, can be pinned to dashboard


You can then perform the following actions:

- Filter the visualization using options in the Filters panel.
- Pin the insight card to a dashboard.
- Run insights on the card (scoped insights) by selecting Get insights in the upper-right corner. 
  - scoped insights allow you to drill into your data.
- Return to the original insights canvas by selecting Exit Focus mode in the upper-left corner.

# Add a dashboard theme

# Pin a live report page to a dashboard
Pinning a report page is a simple way to pin all visuals at once.

Dashboards are intended to be a collection from various sources, not just as a "launching pad" for reports. 

# Configure a real-time dashboard
Data that comes from a streaming data source is stored in a temporary cache, not a semantic model. This means you can't make changes to the semantic model.

Select the Edit drop-down arrow >  Add Tile > Real-Time Data> Custom Streaming semantic models.

For more information, see [Real-time streaming in Power BI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/connect-data/service-real-time-streaming).


# Set mobile view
- pbi desktop report mobile view propagate to dashboard

- you can also optimize your dashboards for mobile view in Power BI service. 
  - select the Edit drop down arrow on the home ribbon
  - select Mobile layout. 
  - choose which tiles that you want to see on the mobile view.

# exercise
workspace > create dashboard

report > visual > pin to dashboard

dashboard > ask question about data

tile detail > functionality > display last refresh time