---
title: 2. choose a pbi model framework
created: 2025-01-06T10:12
updated: 2025-01-06T14:57
---
# Describe Power BI model fundamentals
## Data model
query-able data resource optimized for analytics
- Power BI uses DAX, 
- paginated reports can use either DAX or MDX. 
- The Analyze in Excel features uses MDX.
## Power BI dataset
- A dataset is a Power BI artifact that’s a source of data for visualizations in Power BI reports and dashboards.
- once pbi model published to a workspace in the Power BI service, it’s then known as a dataset
## Analytic query
An analytic query has three phases that are executed in this order:

1. Filter (slicing)
2. Group (dicing)
3. Summarize
## Tabular model 
queried via dax not mdx
comprises of 
- one or more tables of columns.
- relationships, 
- hierarchies,
- calculations.
## Star schema design
dimensions table columns filter or group. Fact table columns are summarized.
## Table storage mode
- **Import** – Queries retrieve data that’s stored, or cached, in the model.
- **DirectQuery** – Queries pass through to the data source.
- **Dual** – Queries retrieve stored data or pass through to the data source. Power BI determines the most efficient plan, striving to use cached data whenever possible.
## Model framework
Table storage mode settings determine the model framework,
- An import model comprises tables that have their storage mode property set to **Import**.
- A DirectQuery model comprises tables that have their storage mode property set to **DirectQuery**, and they belong to the same source group. Source group is described later in this module.
- A composite model comprises more than one source group.
# Determine when to develop an import model
pro
	all data source supported
	can integrate different source
	support dax and mquery
	support calculated table
	best analytic query performance
con
	model size (strive to reduce the amount of data stored in tables)
		shared capacity 1gb limit per dataset
		dedicated capacity (premium) can grow beyond 10 GB
	should
		remove unneeded row, col
		summarize 
		optimize dataatype with preference for numeric
		aim for custom col in mquery than dax calc col
		disable m query load
		disable auto date/time
		use direct query table storage
	periodic refresh 
		(8/day shared capacity)
		(48 /day in dedicated)
# Determine when to develop a DirectQuery model
pro
	Model large or fast-changing data sources
	Enforce source RLS using source RLS with SSO
	Data sovereignty restrictions (regulations that prevents export of data from premise)
		consider installing [Power BI Report Server](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/report-server/get-started) for on-premises reporting
	Create specialized datasets
		Typically, DirectQuery mode supports relational database sources
			need to translate analytics queries to native queries
		You can connect to a Power BI dataset (or Azure Analysis Services model) and convert it to a DirectQuery local model
			A local model is a relative term that describes a model’s relationship to another model.
con
	only maojor relational sys, pdi dataset, azure analysis services
	m query not possible (no pivot and unpivot)
	slow (esp if source sys not optimized via indices/ materialized view)
optimization
	Data source optimizations
	DirectQuery user-defined aggregation tables (how does this work with rls?)
# Determine when to develop a composite model
pro
	flexibility
	balance between import and passthrough
	boost query performance.
	can extend with new calculated columns and tables.
	https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guidance/powerbi-implementation-planning-usage-scenario-customizable-managed-self-service-bi
con
	still require periodic refresh to prevent out of sync
	performance issue when consolidate import and direct query
	chained model may break due to upstream mod
	relationship cross source is limited (cant determine the 1 side of 1:n)
		Limited relationships may result in different evaluations of model queries and calculations
	Import aggregation tables
		 Chained aggregations covering three or more tables aren't allowed. For example, aggregations on **Table A** can't refer to a **Table B** that has aggregations referring to a **Table C**.
		 The **Detail Table** must use DirectQuery storage mode, not Import.
	Dual storage mode
	Deliver real-time data from an import model
		When you set up an import table with incremental refresh, you can enable the **Get the latest data in real-time with DirectQuery** option.
		this is called **hybrid table**
# Choose a model framework
Choose the DirectQuery model framework when your data source stores large volumes of data and/or your report needs to deliver near real-time data.

Choose the composite model framework to:

- Boost the query performance of a DirectQuery model.
- Deliver near real-time query results from an import model.
- Extend a Power BI dataset (or AAS model) with additional data.