---
title: 6. Add calculated tables and columns to pbi
created: 2025-01-08
updated: 2025-01-08
---

# row context 
If the tables are related, directly or indirectly, you can use the `RELATED` or `RELATEDTABLE` DAX function. 
    The `RELATED` function retrieves the value at the **one-side** of the relationship, 
    the `RELATEDTABLE` retrieves values on the **many-side**. The `RELATEDTABLE` function returns a table object.

When the tables aren't related, you can use the `LOOKUPVALUE` DAX function.

related work better than lookupvalue wrt performance (indexed and stored)

e.g. ordered (many) : product price (1)


Row context is used when calculated column formulas are evaluated. It's also used when a class of functions, known as iterator functions, are used. Iterator functions provide you with flexibility to create sophisticated summarizations. Iterator functions are described in a later module.

# Choose a technique to add a column

3 techniques

- Add columns to a view or table (as a persisted column), 
  - and then source them in Power Query. 
  - This option only makes sense when your data source is a relational database and if you have the skills and permissions to do so
  - However, it's a **good** option because it supports ease of maintenance and allows reuse of the column logic in other models or reports.
- Add custom columns (using M) to Power Query queries.
- Add calculated columns (using DAX) to model tables.


recommend only use a calculated column when the calculated column formula:
- Depends on summarized model data.
- Needs to use specialized modeling functions that are only available in DAX
  - i.e. `RELATED` and `RELATEDTABLE` functions. Specialized functions can also include the DAX `parent and child hierarchies`, `path` `pathitem` to find recursive relationship 
    - e.g. in an employee table where each row stores a reference to the row of the manager (who is also an employee).

- Calculated tables aren't evaluated in any context. 
- Calculated columns are evaluated in row context.

- for usecase of recursive analysis of hierarchy. 
  - The columns require naturalizing the parent-child relationship into columns. 
  - M doesn't have built-in functions to complete this operation.