---
title: 5. Use DAX iterator functions in Power BI Desktop models 
created: 2025-01-15
updated: 2025-01-15

---

family of functions known as iterator functions (IF):
- enumerate all rows of a table and evaluate a given expression for **each row**.


single column summarization function like
- sum
- count
- min
- max

are syntactical sugar / decorator of iterator functions like 
- sumx 
- countx
- minx
- maxx

you must pass a table and an expression to IF

- avoid using large tables (of rows) with expressions that use expansive DAX functions
  - e.g.  SEARCH result in slow performance
  - LOOKUPVALUE lead to slow row by row retrieval of values 
    - (use RELATED instead)

# what is a dax expression?
An expression can contain any or all of the following: operators, constants, or references to columns.

# average ignores blank rows from total number of rows
AVERAGE and AVERAGEX does not equal to SUM( Amount ) / Number Of Instances. This is a misconception. If [Amount] is BLANK, this amount is not considered. So, fir instance, AVERAGE of (1, 1, BLANK, BLANK) = 2/2, not 2/4. If you want to force the recognition of BLANKs, you have to add 0 to them. So, AVERAGE of (1, 1, BLANK + 0, BLANK + 0) = 2/4. 

# use aggregation iterator functions
```dax
Discount =
SUMX(
    Sales,
    Sales[Order Quantity]
    * (
        RELATED('Product'[List Price]) - Sales[Unit Price]
    )
)
```

# Higher grain summarization

> https://www.coursera.org/articles/data-granularity
> Low (course) granularity data is more summarized and consists of more extensive, aggregated units. 
> high (fine) granularity, you will break down your data into very small levels of grain
> e.g.
> high: keystroke
> mid: number of times someone saved or edited their text
> low: entire essay or submission



each value point in a visual should correspond to an eval at a filter context 
DAX A
```
Revenue Avg =
AVERAGEX(
    Sales,
    Sales[Order Quantity] * Sales[Unit Price] * (1 - Sales[Unit Price Discount Pct])
)
```

DAX B
```
Revenue Avg Order =
AVERAGEX(
    VALUES('Sales Order'[Sales Order]),
    [Revenue]
)
```

DAX B is higher than DAX A because it is higher up in the hierarchy
sale order contain multiple sale lines.


Filter context and the VALUES function are introduced in the filter context module.
#TODO what module???


# Calculate ranks
```
RANKX(<table>, <expression>[, <value>[, <order>[, <ties>]]])
```

order default desc (0)

ties: dense vs skip ( )


It's not appropriate to rank total products, so use the following logic to return BLANK, unless a single product is filtered:
DAX
```
Product Quantity Rank =
IF(
    HASONEVALUE('Product'[Product]),
    RANKX(
        ALL('Product'[Product]),
        [Quantity],
        ,
        ,
        DENSE
    )
)
```

`hasonevalue` test whether the Product column in the Product table has a single value in filter context. It's the case for each product group, but not for the total, which represents all products.